v0.10.0 release docs (#477)
kuzudb/kuzu-docs: src/content/docs/extensions/algos/scc.mdx

---
title: Strongly Connected Components
---

A strongly connected component (SCC) in a directed graph is a maximal subgraph where every pair of
vertices is mutually reachable - meaning for any two nodes `u` and `v` in the component, there exists a
directed path from `u` to `v` and a directed path from `v` to `u`. 
This mutual reachability property means that nodes within an SCC form a cycle where they can all
reach each other through directed paths, and no additional nodes can be added to the component while
maintaining this property.

Kuzu implements two types of SCC algorithms:
- Parallel BFS-based [coloring algorithm](https://www.cs.rpi.edu/~slotag/pub/SCC-IPDPS14.pdf)
- DFS-based [Kosaraju's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosaraju%27s_algorithm)

> You can choose between either of the two algorithms, depending on your use case.

Reviewer: We should say more here on the difference of these two implementations, and give recommendations on which to use under what kind of use cases.

Reviewer: Actually we have explained this. Let me close this comment

See [below](#frequently-asked-questions) for more details.

## Syntax

```cypher
// BFS-based algorithm
CALL strongly_connected_components(
    graph_name,
    maxIterations := 100
)
RETURN node, group_id
```

```cypher
// DFS-based algorithm (Kosaraju's algorithm)
CALL strongly_connected_components_kosaraju(
    graph_name
)
RETURN node, group_id
```

**Parameters**

| Parameter | Type | Optional | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| graph_name | STRING | No | - | Name of the projected graph to run the algorithm on |

> | maxIterations | INT64 | Yes | 100 | Maximum number of iterations to run (only for BFS-based algorithm) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| maxIterations | INT64 | Yes | 100 | Maximum number of iterations to run (This parameter is **only for BFS-based algorithm**) |
```

```cypher
CALL project_graph('Graph', ['Node'], ['Edge']);
```
Then, you can run SCC using either of the two algorithms.
```cypher
// BFS-based algorithm
CALL strongly_connected_components('Graph')
RETURN group_id, collect(node.id);

// DFS-based algorithm (Kosaraju's algorithm)
CALL strongly_connected_components_kosaraju('Graph')
RETURN group_id, collect(node.id);
```
```
┌──────────┬──────────────────┐
│ group_id │ COLLECT(node.id) │
│ INT64    │ STRING[]         │
├──────────┼──────────────────┤
│ 3        │ [G,E,D,A,B]      │
│ 0        │ [I,F,H]          │
│ 8        │ [C]              │
└──────────┴──────────────────┘
```

## Frequently asked questions

#### What's the difference between `scc` and `scc_kosaraju`?

`scc` is a parallel BFS-based algorithm. While `scc_kosaraju` is a DFS-based algorithm.
Due to the nature of DFS, `scc_kosaraju` can only run in single-threaded mode. 
Kosaraju's algorithm is recommended in the following cases:
- If your graph is very sparse, i.e. with a large number of nodes but very small number of edges; or
- If your graph has a very high [diameter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diameter_(graph_theory))

#### How is `group_id` assigned?

> `group_id` is assigned based on Kuzu'sinternal node offsets. Currently there is no way to assign `group_id` based on node properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`group_id` is assigned based on Kuzu's internal node offsets. Currently there is no way to assign `group_id` based on node properties.
```
